Head, Transaction Service Group, Ecobank Nigeria, Emile Sagna (left); Director of Customs Department of Trade, Customs and Free Movement, ECOWAS Commission, Salifou Tiemtore; Chief Client Engagement Officer, Ecobank Nigeria, Jolone Okorodudu; Acting Deputy Managing Director, Corporate Bank, Ecobank Nigeria, Foluke Aboderin; and Assistant Comptroller, Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), Anthony Ayalogu, at the bank’s corporate trade forum held in Lagos. THE Bank Directors Association of Nigeria (BDAN) is organising a business forum to discuss key issues facing the Nigerian banking industry. This year’s forum will hold on Tuesday, November 17, 2015 at the Lagos Oriental Hotel, Victoria Island, Lagos, under the chairmanship Senator Udoma Udo Udoma, while the Central Bank of Nigeria’s Governor, Godwin Emefiele, will deliver the keynote address. The move is part of efforts to boost stakeholders’ relationship management, as banks gear up for the year-end.
This forum, which is a yearly intellectual event organised by the association is expected to bring together key players and operators in the Nigerian business community, captains of industry, Chief directors of banks and other financial institutions, as well as investment advisers and officials of regulatory institutions, professional associations and consultants in the industry. The President of BDAN, Olorogun Dr. Sunny Kuku, said this year’s forum, tagged: “Oversight Functions of the Board: Effectively Managing Key Internal and External Relationships” is apt in view of recent challenges faced by many organisations. It has become apparently clear that for organisations to survive and win in the competitive market in this turbulent period in the national economy, it is imperative for organisations to identify, engage and manage its key internal and external stakeholders. There is also need to understand the role of the board of directors in promoting effective management of these stakeholders cannot be overemphasised. Already, renowned experts have been invited as resource persons at the event- Dr. Adedotun Sulaiman, the former Managing Director of Accenture, who will speak on the management of internal stakeholders, while Mr. Fola Adeola, a seasoned banker, founder and the first Chief Executive Officer of Guaranty Trust Bank will address the management of external stakeholders’ relationships. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .