PHOTO: www.brandish.com.ng Stakeholders, including Da Viva Fabrics, have endorsed PZ Cusson’s Canoe detergent for sustaining the product’s quality and enhancing its use on coloured fabrics. Speaking at the unveiling of a new logo for the brand in Lagos, market women led by the Iyaloja General, Odi Olowo/Ojuwoye Lagos, Mrs. Mufuliat Abimbola Adebunmi commended the brand for meeting the expectation of consumers by preserving the quality of coloured fabrics after its use. Speaking at the market activation, she said: “We appreciate your efforts. We salute your innovation especially your newly relaunched colourful Canoe detergent and we assure you of our endorsement and patronage”. Besides, she advised that the brand should continue to maintain the standard it has set for itself before the consumers, noting that such will enhance continued patronage and support by the target audience. Also, Public Relations Manager of Da Viva Fabrics, Mrs. Carol Arhere, said “the newly repackaged Canoe detergent is a delight to consumers who want to use a detergent that will not damage the colours and quality of their fabrics after wash”. According to her, “Da Viva fabrics are produced by Africa prints, and we have been in partnership with Canoe detergent for more than two years”, adding that Canoe has been tested on Da Viva fabrics and there has been no issues as regards preserving the colours and quality of the materials after use”. Commenting on the brand relaunch, Senior Brand Manager, Canoe Detergent, Aro Olalekan stated that the essence is to unveil the new colourful look of Canoe, reinforce the brand’s leadership status in the colour care segment, entrench colour care credentials; strengthen existing trade loyalty. “Canoe detergent was reintroduced into the Nigerian market in 2013 and positioned as a good value branded detergent powder which protects and cares for coloured garments. We are unveiling a new colourful Canoe detergent and the choice of in-market relaunch is to strengthen the existing relationship with our trade partners and boost consumers’ confidence on the efficacy of brand Canoe. He added that the plan is to take the relaunch to other locations across the country, which will afford us practical interaction with the brand and the consumers.” On the partnership with Da Viva, he disclosed that an internal product quality test, by Da Viva has corroborated the brand’s claim of being the only Nigerian detergent powder that protects colours in every wash. On his part, Regional Sales Manager, Lagos, Ayodeji Adewale, who spoke on the competition in the market segment revealed that, “It has been a tough market, noting that however Canoe detergent always finds a way round the market competition through innovative products and connection with the consumer.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .