THE Nigerian Institute of Oceanography and Marine Research (NIOMR0 Headquarters, Lagos. Image source waappaquaculture THE Nigerian Institute of Oceanography and Marine Research (NIOMR) has unveiled Catfish Canning Innovation Platform (CCIP) to improve the catfish value chain, as a concept that represents a paradigm shift in fish production. Director-General and Chief Executive Officer of NIMOR, Dr. Gbola Akande said that the innovation, meant for different aquaculture value chains, was aimed at effectively engaging all shareholders to develop aquaculture industry to be able to create job and wealth through value addition while also increasing fish production in the country. Speaking at the ceremony of innovation platform for stakeholders in catfish farming and canning event, organized by the institute in collaboration with Forum of Agricultural Research in Africa, (FARA) held in Lagos state, Akande said, the utilization of low value small and medium sized catfish would increase the production of catfish in the country. “Canning of this medium size catfish as value addition is currently ongoing as a means of increasing their utilization for human consumption, investment opportunities and product diversification, quality standardization in the local and foreign market. This is in addition to foreign exchange earnings through export of the canned catfish, “he added. Akande noted that the catfish canning project was funded with $100, 000 grant from the Forum for Agricultural Research in Africa (FARA), commending the organisation for its support on the project. Commenting on the innovation platform, he said that the objective of such innovation platform was to facilitate understanding among local players in the value chain such as farmers, input suppliers, traders, transporters, processors, wholesalers and retailers. “Innovation platform identify bottlenecks and opportunities in production, marketing and policy environment. The process is galvanised through discussions on market requirements, which include quantity, quality, and the timing of sales, followed by analysis of existing production strategies.” He said. Also speaking at the ceremony, Head of Section of Extension Research and Liaison Services, NIOMR, Dr. Mabel Yarhere stressed that there must be cohesion to unite stakeholders for mutual interests. She maintained that the platform must have potential to meet the interest of stakeholders on board, adding that all stakeholders must have definite contributions to benefit from the platform. “An idea must be replicable at an economic cost and must satisfy a specific need. Innovation involves a deliberate application of information, values from resources, and includes all processes by which new ideas are generated and converted into useful products. “In business, an innovation often results when ideas are applied by the company in order to further satisfy the needs and expectations of the customers. In a social context, innovation helps create new methods for alliance, joint venturing, flexible work hours, and creation of buyers’ purchasing power”, she added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .