OVERLAND Airways OVERLAND Airways has commenced flight services to Jalingo, the Taraba State capital, from the airline’s hub in Abuja.
Speaking on the development, Chief Operating Officer of Overland Airways, Mrs. Aanu Benson disclosed that the airline operates a current fleet of 9 modern turboprop aircraft excellently adapted to its short-distance operations. According to her, “Overland Airways is an outstanding economic development partner and catalyst in Nigeria creating value for remote cities and communities. Our cardinal objective is to fast-track national development especially at the hinterland level, and we have a deep sense of fulfillment each time we connect another potential economic powerhouse like Jalingo to the main economic hubs.”
“Today marks the beginning of a new economic frontier for Taraba State. Overland Airways is pleased to bring air connectivity to bear on the efforts to accelerate economic development in Jalingo and Taraba State.” she added She said that Overland Airways was the first airline to launch flights to Jalingo airport, thus opening the state to unprecedented economic development in tourism, agribusiness, small and medium scale industries among others. This notable feat, she stated was one of several features that single out Overland Airways as an unmatched partner in economic empowerment and development especially in hinterland regions in Nigeria. The airline is renowned for launching first-ever flights to several Nigerian secondary airports such as Asaba, Dutse, Katsina and Minna, which has effectively created an extensive web of economic development in these regions and their environs. To date, Overland Airways is Nigeria’s most consistent longest serving airline providing un-interrupted flights and opening up Nigeria’s remote economies over the last 13 years.
Speaking further, Benson said, “Overland Airways has the zeal to provide avenue for wealth creation especially in Jalingo and other remote cities in Nigeria. We are passionate about alleviating the challenges facing road commuters, and we are pleased to enhance the movement of economic developers, new investors, tourists, etc. to and from Jalingo. Residents and visitors of Jalingo and its environs will no longer have to travel to other states to catch a flight to Abuja.” She said, “We are humbled to see the economic impact of opening up Nigeria’s hinterland destinations; from Ilorin, Ibadan, Dutse, Bauchi to Minna among others. The benefits of Overland Airways air connectivity are remarkable. We invite you to experience Overland Airways’ on-board hospitality in Jalingo. Our fares start from N25, 000.” She stated that in the difficult operating environment in Nigeria, it takes great courage and professionalism to venture into remote routes with low yield. The airline, she explained relies on its excellent fleet choice, professionalism and outstanding management and discipline to sustain its vigorous spread in Nigeria’s hinterland destinations.
The Chief Operating Officer stated the airline would operate thrice-weekly flights; Monday, Wednesday and Friday between Abuja and Jalingo, adding that the airline provides scheduled domestic passenger services in Nigeria and is a leading charter services operator in West and Central Africa. Governor Darius Ishaku of Taraba State expresses delight at the launch of flights to Jalingo, which provides a strong boost to economic development efforts in Taraba State.
Sitting in the tropical belt with a vast geographic area featuring mountains, hills and lush grasslands and high-yield arable land, Taraba State has huge agricultural, tourism and other potentials for investment. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .