AFRINVEST Asset Management Limited has been named the “Best Asset Management– Nigeria” in the Wealth and Finance International magazine Finance Awards 2014. The Finance Awards were developed to recognise and reward excellence, best practice and innovation in finance, open to individuals and firms operating and working in a wide range of industries, including personal finance, corporate finance, accountancy and financial management. In naming Afrinvest best asset manager for Nigeria, Wealth & Finance was impressed with the firm’s tailored asset management services, which it customises to its target high-net worth, institutional and retail clients. “Investors find Afrinvest’s flexibility and excellent client service delivery to be the best points about working with the company”, noted the Finance Awards Committee. In his response, the Managing Director of Afrinvest Asset Management Limited, Ola Belgore, expressed appreciation to the organisers of the award for recognizing the firm’s professionalism and excellent client service. Belgore also assured investors of the firm’s commitment to providing value for their investments. In his words, “We will continue to ensure that we get the right outcome for our clients, and do so in a way that they can understand, so we do not fall into the mistake of leading with complexity when our clients are looking for simplicity.” Wealth & Finance International is a monthly publication, dedicated to delivering high quality informative and up-to-the-minute global business content. Developed by a highly skilled team of writers, editors, business insiders and regional industry experts, the magazine reports from every corner of the globe to give readers the inside track on the need-to-know news and issues affecting banking, finance, regulation, risk and wealth management in their region. Afrinvest Asset Management is licensed by the Securities and Exchange Commission as a Fund/Portfolio Manager. It is a subsidiary of Afrinvest (West Africa) Limited, a wealth advisory firm involved in investment banking, securities trading, asset management and investment research with a focus on West Africa. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .