Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu. Foremost ground handling operator, nahco aviance, has commenced full cargo operations at the Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu. The Chief Financial Officer of the Company, Mrs. Chinwe Chiji–Nnorom, who spoke for the MD/CEO, Mr. Norbert Bielderman, who is on vacation, said the opening of the two warehouses, one within the airport, and the other a few metres from the airport would further enhance the development of the air cargo business in the south east,  and the country as a whole. The MD/CEO, Bielderman, had only few weeks ago inspected the warehouses where he directed that it must start full operations before he embarked on his vacation. Bielderman also used the visit to meet with the Customs hierarchy at the Enugu Area Command where the modalities for effective cargo operations were agreed upon. But speaking in Lagos at the weekend, the Chief Financial Officer of the Company, Nnorom, said the opening of the Enugu warehouses is a major milestone for the Company in its determination to ensure that the economy of Nigeria is further developed through the development of other airports in the country outside of Lagos Airport. She assured that the same excellent services nahco aviance is known for in Lagos would be available for all users of the Company’s services at the Enugu Airport. She, “nahco aviance would not rest on its oars in its continued efforts at providing excellent services to its clients whether in Lagos, which is our West Africa hub, Port Harcourt, Abuja, Kano, Kaduna, Owerri or Enugu.” Nigerian Aviation Handling Company Plc. (nahco aviance) is a Nigerian diversified enterprise with interests in aviation cargo, aircraft handling, passenger facilitation, crew transportation and aviation training. The company currently serves more than 35 airlines at seven airports across Nigeria, with plans to expand operations to other African countries. It handles about 70% of domestic and foreign airlines operating in Nigeria.Nahco aviance was incorporated on December 6th 1979 as an aviation servicing company but started operations in April 1979 with the commissioning of the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos. The Federal Government of Nigeria, through Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), initially held 60% equity interest in the company while four foreign airlines – Air France, British Airways, Sabena and Lufthansa – shared the remaining 40% in various ratios. In 2005, nahco aviance was privatized and subsequently listed on The Nigerian Stock Exchange in 2006. The company is now owned by over 80, 000 shareholders, including two international airlines – Air France and Lufthansa; as well as local investors; Sycor Private Investment Limited and Rosehill Group Nigeria Limited. The company’s stock exchange symbol is “Nahco”. Since its privatization, the company has embarked on business diversification programme that cuts across industries and geography, as a result of which it has developed strategic global alliances through its membership of aviance, the global alliance of 10 reputable airport service providers operating from 112 stations in 17 countries, and The International Air Cargo Association (TIACA), which exists to promote the air cargo industry and world trade. In 2010, nahco aviance was awarded the ISAGO certification, the IATA Safety Audit for Ground Operations, becoming the first ground handling company in West Africa to receive one of the aviation industry’s highest honours for safety and service quality, and has been recertified till 2014. Nahco aviance is rated AA- by Augusto and A- by GCR. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .