General Manager, CCECC South West District, Mr Li Bing (left); Consul General, Chinese Embassy, Lagos, Mr Liu Kan; Head Boy, Satellite Junior Secondary School, Satellite Town, Lagos, Master Ogunsola Seun; and Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education, Lagos State, Mrs Elizabeth Olabisi Ariyo during the commission ceremony of a block of six classrooms donated to the school by CCECC on Thursday. AS part of its corporate social responsibility project and towards fostering better relations between Nigeria and China, the Chinese Consulate in Lagos in collaboration with China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation (CCECC) and other Chinese firms in Nigeria has rehabilitated a block of six classrooms at Satellite Junior Secondary School, Satellite Town, Lagos. The project, which was executed under the framework of ‘China-Africa People-to-People Friendship Action’, was said to have gulped about US$80,000 while another US$5, 000 was spent on other items donated to the school such as 20 dual tables and 40 chairs, 300 school bags, one 40 inch television set, notebooks, umbrellas, jump ropes, calculators, pencils and pens, among others. At the commissioning ceremony on Thursday, Lagos State Governor, Mr Akinwunmi Ambode, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education, Mrs Elizabeth Olabisi Ariyo, appreciated the company’s gesture, noting that his government is committed to supporting the growth of the private sector by providing the enabling environment and promoting investment-friendly policies in the state. Ambode said: “One of the major strategies to facilitate development and break the cycle of poverty is making significant investment in the social sector. Education is one of such sectors, which this administration is determined to give the attention that it deserves. In my last quarterly report, I expressed our commitment to effect necessary change in the sector. This includes providing necessary infrastructure that will make learning environment conducive. These efforts are geared towards restoring confidence in our public school system which carters mostly for the educational needs of children of the less privileged. Today, we are delighted by the kind gesture of China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation (CCECC) through the rehabilitation of six classrooms, two offices and donation of 40 chairs and tables as well as other learning materials for the use of pupils of Satellite Junior Secondary School. We appreciate the commitment of the management of CCECC to its corporate social responsibility. On our part as government, we remain committed to supporting the growth of the private sector by providing the enabling environment and promoting investment-friendly policies in the state. I look forward to more support and collaboration of the private sector and public-spirited individuals as we move the state forward to greater height. The Governor urged residents of the Satellite Town community to take ownership of the school, noting: “The school is your property hence you have to take very good care of it in order to inspire more support from corporate organisations and individuals.”
Rationalising the need for the execution of the project, the Chinese Consul-General in Lagos, Mr Liu Kan said it was meant to improve teaching and learning in the school. Kan explained: “In 2012, Chinese government raised a new suggestion to carry out a programme called ‘China-Africa People-to-People Friendship Action’ in the Fifth Ministerial Conference of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation. The programme aims at encouraging and supporting exchanges and cooperation between non-governmental organisations, women and young people of the two sides. To implement the programme in its consular district, the Consulate-General of People’s Republic of China in Lagos encouraged Chinese companies in Nigeria to make donations to local community and schools in Lagos in the previous two years. The rehabilitation project for Satellite Junior Secondary School, Satellite Town, Lagos, was carried out by a Chinese company this year under the framework of ‘China-Africa People-to-People Friendship Action’. CCECC is responsible for the construction of the project, which lasted for two months and was completed on September 5 before the beginning of the new term. CCECC also donated 60 sets of class desks and stools for the school. The Consulate-General of China and Lagos State Ministry of Education did much coordinative work during the process of the implementation of the project. To enhance teaching and learning in the school, the Consulate-General sponsored some stationary and school bags for the students of Satellite Junior Secondary School,” Kan explained. He noted that the project further testifies of the amity of Chinese people to Nigeria people. He added: “The ‘China-Africa People-to-People Friendship Action’ project coordinated by the Consulate-General will be carried out every year to the benefit Nigerian people. In the past two years, Chinese Consulate-General, together with the Chinese companies in Nigeria, conducted two ‘China-Africa People-to-People Friendship Action’ projects in Lagos, namely, the donation of household appliances to the Isolo SOS International Children Village in 2013, and the Campus Renovation project for Eti-Osa Itedo Primary School in 2014.” Principal of the school, Mrs C. B. Izegwire, who was visibly delighted by the completion and commissioning of the project said: “It will be recalled that the building had been abandoned for years. Sometime this year, a staff of CCECC walked into this school compound, surveyed the uncompleted building and promised that his company was going to complete it as part of its corporate social responsibility. I thought it was a joke. The fulfillment of that promise is why we are all gathered here today. You can manage our joy and gratitude. I wish to place it on record that the project was completed within eight weeks of the 2015 long vacation.” She acknowledged that the new classrooms and offices would reduce accommodation challenges experienced by the school, noting that “the associated luxury and ambience will greatly enhance teaching and learning.”
She added: “Once more, we shall eternally remain grateful to CEECC for this wonderful charity. This is a good example of the Public Private Partnership (PPP) the government has been clamouring for. We enjoin other organisations to emulate the example of this company.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .